Create Blog Post “vonage-video-media-processor-released-for-ios-android-and-more” (#2557)
Nexmo/deved-platform: content/blog/en/vonage-video-media-processor-released-for-ios-android-and-more.md

---

> title: Vonage Video Media Processor released for iOS, Android and more!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Vonage Video Media Processor Released for IOS, Android, and More!
```
Please use our Capitalize My Title tool in all titles and subtitles per our contributing guidelines: https://learn.vonage.com/contributing/.

Reviewer 2: is capitalising IOS correct? Apples guidance is its a lowercase i

Reviewer: You are correct.

description: Vonage Video Media Processor API is now on native platforms
  allowing you to add custom transformations to your published video.
author: zachary-powell-1
published: true
published_at: 2023-08-08T09:23:48.196Z
updated_at: 2023-08-08T09:23:48.215Z
category: release
tags:
  - video-api
comments: true
spotlight: false
redirect: ""
canonical: ""
outdated: false
replacement_url: ""
---

> The Video Video Media Processor API is now available on all supported native platforms (iOS, Android, Windows and macOS) allowing you to add custom transformations to your published video. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Video Video Media Processor API is now available on all supported native platforms (iOS, Android, Windows, and macOS), allowing you to add custom transformations to your published video. 
```

> In the past, we have spoken about how we can use this functionality in the Javascript SDK to create effects like [background blur and apply virtual background](https://developer.vonage.com/en/blog/use-media-processor-and-ai-video-transformers-with-vonage-video-api) but let's take a look at how we can now create a background blur effect on iOS and Android using pre-built transformers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the past, we have spoken about how we can use this functionality in the JavaScript SDK to create effects like [background blur and apply virtual background](https://developer.vonage.com/en/blog/use-media-processor-and-ai-video-transformers-with-vonage-video-api) but let's take a look at how we can now create a background blur effect on iOS and Android using pre-built transformers.
```

## Background Blur

> Alongside the release of this feature, we also have [a new developer guide showing you how to make use of the Media Processor to create a background blur effect as well as other custom transformations](https://tokbox.com/developer/guides/vonage-media-processor/). However let's take a look at how we can create the background blur effect in Android and iOS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alongside the release of this feature, we also have [a new developer guide showing you how to make use of the Media Processor to create a background blur effect as well as other custom transformations](https://tokbox.com/developer/guides/vonage-media-processor/). However let's take a look at how we can create the background blur effect in Android and iOS.
```

> Alongside the release of this feature, we also have a new developer guide showing you how to make use of the Media Processor to create a background blur effect as well as other custom transformations. You can find these guides [here](https://tokbox.com/developer/guides/vonage-media-processor/) but let's take a look at how we can create the background blur effect in Android and iOS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alongside the release of this feature, we also have [a new developer guide showing you how to make use of the Media Processor to create a background blur effect as well as other custom transformations](https://tokbox.com/developer/guides/vonage-media-processor/). However let's take a look at how we can create the background blur effect in Android and iOS
```

For links, try to have the link naturally included in an appropriate phrase. Rather than using “You can find more information here” or “Click here to read more”, use something like “The SMS API allows you to quickly send messages.” As per contributing guidelines: https://learn.vonage.com/contributing/

### Android

Before you get started, make sure that you have followed [getting started guide](https://tokbox.com/developer/tutorials/android/basic-video-chat/) and have a basic video chat application setup with a created Publisher object.

Use the [PublisherKit.VideoTransformer(String name, String properties)](https://tokbox.com/developer/sdks/android/reference/com/opentok/android/PublisherKit.VideoTransformer.html#%3Cinit%3E(java.lang.String,java.lang.String)) constructor to create a video transformer that uses a named transformer from the Vonage Media Library.

> Currently, only one transformer is supported: background blur. Set the name parameter to `BackgroundBlur`. Set the properties parameter to a JSON string defining properties for the transformer. For the background blur transformer, this JSON includes one property `radius` which can be set to `High`, `Low`, or `None`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, only one transformer is supported: background blur. Set the name parameter to `BackgroundBlur`. Set the properties parameter to a JSON string defining properties for the transformer. For the background blur transformer, this JSON includes one property `radius`, which can be set to `High`, `Low`, or `None`.
```

```java
ArrayList<PublisherKit.VideoTransformer> videoTransformers = new ArrayList<>(); 
PublisherKit.VideoTransformer backgroundBlur = new PublisherKit.VideoTransformer( "BackgroundBlur", "{"radius":"High"}" ); 

videoTransformers.add(backgroundBlur); 

publisher.setVideoTransformers(videoTransformers);
```

### iOS

Before you get started, make sure that you have followed [getting started guide](https://tokbox.com/developer/tutorials/ios/swift/basic-video-chat/) and have a basic video chat application setup with a created OTPublisher object.

Use the [OTVideoTransformer initWithName:properties:](https://tokbox.com/developer/sdks/ios/reference/Classes/OTVideoTransformer.html#//api/name/initWithName:properties:) method to create a video transformer that uses a named transformer from the Vonage Media Library.

Currently, only one transformer is supported: background blur. Set the name parameter to `BackgroundBlur`. Set the properties parameter to a JSON string defining properties for the transformer. For the background blur transformer, this JSON includes one property `radius` which can be set to `High`, `Low`, or `None`.

```swift

> var backgroundBlur = new OTVideoTransformer()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
var backgroundBlur = new OTVideoTransformer()
```
Do we have to use `var`? Can we use let/ const?

backgroundBlur.init(name: "BackgroundBlur", properties:"{\"radius\":\"High\"}")
var myVideoTransformers = [backgroundBlur]
publisher.videoTransformers = myVideoTransformers
```

> ## Sample apps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Sample Apps
```
Please use our Capitalize My Title tool in all titles and subtitles per our contributing guidelines: https://learn.vonage.com/contributing/.

Looking for a more complete sample to test out and experiment with? We have you covered! 
Sample applications showcasing the media processor are available for the following platforms: 

* [Windows](https://github.com/opentok/opentok-windows-sdk-samples/tree/main/VideoTransformers)
* [Android](https://github.com/opentok/opentok-android-sdk-samples/tree/main/Video-Transformers-Java)

> * iOS - https://github.com/opentok/opentok-ios-sdk-samples/pull/289 TODO NOT YET MERGED

Reviewer: This has to be added before the review is marked as done.

> We look forward to seeing what interesting video transformations you create using the new API!

Reviewer: Please add a conclusion inviting folks to join us on our community developer slack and talk to us on twitter.

e.g.: Let us know what you're building with Vonage Video Media Processor. Chat with us on our [Vonage Community Slack](https://developer.vonage.com/community/slack) or send us a message on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/VonageDev).
